We had this Ganesha Puja, and I really spoke
very nicely on equilibrium. And the rain,
expressed its equilibrium, but when they were
singing, it was very quiet. And when it stopped
for a short time suddenly it came with a complete
gusto and sang some songs and went away again.
Just for the aarti to start with. It’s very
beautiful it was. So dramatic. Very interesting.
So all preparations are done for the puja?
Maybe some people might come up from abroad,
I don’t know. Maybe. Have you written to
some leaders or not, about this puja that
we are going to have?
Yogi: I think yes some invitations were sent
out.
Shri Mataji: Might have gone out.
Yogi: There are one or two people coming.
Shri Mataji: They might come.
Yogi: Only individuals. I invited a few people
at Ganapatipule and they said; ‘Oh, it’s
such a long way.’ And I said: ‘But you
always expect us to come to yours.
Shri Mataji: Yes. They have to move. Columbus
could go to America, why not you people go
to Australia. Can’t understand.
Yogi: And a much more comfortable trip.
Shri Mataji: Much more comfortable. They found
a much more comfortable place to live in.
He was really lost. But in a way thank God,
you see. Otherwise there would have been no
Indian left in India, if he had come here
by chance. So many flowers, beautiful. In
Singapore I bought a book, very interesting,
called as: ‘Faces of Islam.’ And I was
surprised that the whole concept of Islam
is Sahaja. Absolutely. And all the, authors
and all the people, who have discussed there,
are saying that Muslims are not Islamic. They
don’t follow Islam. That’s why their whole
thing has become so rigid. I mean so surprising
that book has revealed to Me the confessions,
of these people.
And the society that Mohammed Sahib has talked
about is ours. Muslims are nowhere. Absolutely
the way He has described how the brotherhood
would be there, how righteousness would be
there. But one thing is missing I feel, that
He said: ‘You must seek the knowledge. You
must seek the Truth.’ Despite that, whatever
was Islam, they have failed to seek the knowledge,
and to learn from others. Can you imagine?
And He has said how to deal with non-Muslims
also. And they said that there are many who
are just minimal Muslims. Some of them are
just for name’s sake, they are not Muslims.
I mean I was so amazed. We have such a misunderstanding,
that I always said that all these Incarnations
and Prophets, came to establish a religion
which was really Sahaja Yoga. All their expectations
were Sahaja Yoga. And they have deviated so
much, that you start wondering what is this,
as in Christianity, you see. How much it has
deviated, Christianity, to what level it has
gone, it is shocking, really shocking.
I don’t know if you know of a book written
‘In God’s Name’. And in that book, it
reads like a novel actually, I mean it’s
very interesting. In that book the writer
has suggested that this present pope, is responsible
for the murder of the previous one. And there
were thirteen or fourteen murders took place,
just to hide this. Can you believe it? And
recently one of the persons was murdered was
Calvi. And they say, that this Calvi was murdered,
I mean every week in Italy since I am there,
some new exposures are coming. But this Calvi
was murdered in a way that he was hanged,
on one of the bridges of London. And if he
was, he was the one, the one who murdered
him, he said that: ‘I am a member of mafia
all right, but I was paid by this Vatican
by this pope, for murdering that man.’ Is
a confession from him. And Mr Heard was, questioned:
‘Why didn’t you take action against this
when these things happen in England?’ He
says: ‘What’s the use? Because they would
kill all our lawyers, our judges everyone.
It’s all mafia.’ So the whole system of
Catholic Church is nothing but mafia. Nine
million, dollars of counterfeit, were printed
and were distributed through their bank, that
is Vatican Bank. Can you believe it? I mean
this is Christianity. Is this what Christ
preached? Killing people, doing all kinds
of things?
I mean nowhere I find Mohammed decrying anyone.
He said: ‘You have to believe in everyone’.
Only these people are saying, that He was
the last. He went to this limit to say that:
‘I am not Divine. I follow the Divine laws
but I am not Divine.’ May be just He wanted
people to follow. Surprising I was really
surprised that, if Koran is teaching such
great things, the Muslims are just on the
other side of it and they admit, that Islam
should not be confused with Muslims. In the
same way we can say that Christianity should
not be confused with Christians. What about
Judaism? Same thing. I mean nowhere in that
religion taught, to be like this the way they
are behaving. They are following Hitler, out
and out. The one who killed them, tortured
them, they are becoming just like them.
So what to say about these human beings as,
under the name of God, under the name of religion,
behaving like this. The reason they have given
many: ‘Because of this and because of that.’
So, this aspect, that they are saying that:
‘Because the people didn’t read Koran
properly, they didn’t understand properly,
they should have been educated properly.’
It will take thousand years to educate every
Muslim about it. And if they think that by
teaching through their Book, it will be imbibed,
it’s not possible. Everybody reads Bible
everybody reads Koran, but nothing goes inside
just reading reading reading. So their idea
is that if they read and analyze, I mean you
have to have big universities for that, it
could be taught to people and, still then
not necessary, that they would imbibe.
I know of Mahatma Gandhi, see He was a Realized
soul was a, and He was of course, over-disciplined
according to Me. And He put these ideas on
to His followers. As long as He lived they
were all right. As soon as He died, they came
out in their true colors. Everything dropped
off like some sort of a mud on their body,
and they became horrible people in India.
So the thing missing is this, that, they are
not Realized souls. Because they are not Realized,
all these things they cannot bear. They cannot
bear money, they cannot bear power. Now I
think they cannot bear the religion. So you
have to have your Realization. Unless and
until you have your Realization, you cannot
bear anything.
Moreover in Sahaja Yoga I mean there are no
compulsions, no disciplines as such, I mean
compared to what we see in all these religions.
Suddenly I find people coming up, to the expectations
of righteousness, goodness, and they are also
very compassionate. So the change has come
from inside, that means it’s the innate,
change. The innate religion has been awakened.
It’s not just forced on you, that you should
be Vishwa Nirmala Dharmis but you become,
you just become that. This is the point you
will see, these Prophets did not know, I think
Christ did not know that these people will
never change unless and until they get their
Realization. I think He knew also because
He always said that you have to be born again.
So when He said: ‘You are to be born again,’
they have a, brand you see again, one are
Christian, another Born Again, another are
Seventh Day, another, something. All just
the same stupid people.
But Sahaja Yoga is the only way. Where what
you, say that’s what you follow. Practice
and precepts are just the same for Sahaja
Yogis. They just can’t do it something else.
They are dreaming also that the occident had
a very bad influence on Islam and all that.
I don’t think it’s that. You are coming
from the occident, still you have jumped into
the right culture of religion, when you understand
what is righteousness what is good. You can
bear it. You’re not to be told do this,
do that, but in the light of your Spirit you
do it. And you achieve it. It’s a very,
interesting thing to note, that a little thing
was missing in all of them, and they just
went away as if they never knew where to land.
All these religions, one better than the other.
Hindus, same thing. Hindus had of course one
advantage they were never organized, thank
God, because if you are organized and misled,
then the whole party goes astray. But Hindus,
Hindu scriptures were never organized into
a religion like that. But still, so many points
they have missed. Like it is said that: ‘In
everyone there resides the Spirit’. Then
how can you have caste system? You cannot.
But they have caste system. So, also so many
other rituals and things nonsense is there,
absolutely nonsense. And Hindu religion became,
a kind of a, ritualistic religion where, the
priests uneducated useless priests became
in charge. And they’re so stupid, worse
than pope sometimes, that they say that if
you want to have…
I’ve also found out a solution for children
our western children, what is the problem.
I went to Japan, and what I found there, that
till the age of twelve years, they don’t
allow children to have much sports, to go
out much, and, mostly they are in the house
or in the school, learning to do things with
their hands. And medically I know that, till
the age of twelve years, there is myelin sheath
that grows on your nerves. And this myelin
sheath gives you the deftness. Like if you
go to the villages like [SOUNDS LIKE: Saranti
or all these?], where they are producing artistic
things, what happens, that the children also
start doing the same. It’s so easy for them
when they grow up.
So that is the time when they have to develop
that deftness. That deftness is, also makes
them more concentrated, they get involved
into it, and also, that you can never acquire
later. So that is just a precious time of
twelve years, that that is the time children
should be made to do some drawings, not at
random, but properly, to do some carvings,
to do some other clay work. You’ll be surprised
by the age of twelve years, the boys in Japan
could repair a watch, could repair televisions,
and one boy produced, produced. At that time
when I had gone, there were not many televisions
also. I was surprised that the boy produced
a television, at the age of twelve years.
And also they are given violins in their hands
when they’re about five years. They start
playing. So the music, art and all this side
is developed till the age of twelve years.
And then the children are made to go out and
play and do all kinds of exercises and also
sports. But they are not let loose at a young
age.
Now here I think about twenty years back or
may be twenty-five years back a new theme
started with children that, you should allow
the children to do what they like, let them
express themselves, let them be free, this
that. I think it’s not proper. Otherwise
they would be hanging from some trees trying
to do without parents you see. After all this
is the way the parents escape their duty I
think. You have to tell children what they
have to do. You have to, talk to them, you
must have a rapport with them. You must talk
to them, and you must also try to guide them,
with your experience, tell them what is good
what is bad. But this kind of a, thing that
the child should be allowed to do what they
like, express themselves the way they like.
I’ve seen the western children always will
ask parents: ‘Why, why?’ They are not
to know, they have limitations. They can’t
know every ‘why’. How can they understand?
They are limited and so, first of all, they
are to build up. You can you see this aeroplane
now. Supposing it is not built up and allowed
to go because: ‘It’s all right. Let it
go in the sky’. What will happen? In the
same way we have to put the nuts and bolts
properly, into them, and see that they develop
a personality.
That doesn’t mean that you should be in
any way cruel to them. Not necessary. There’s
no need to beat them or do anything of the
kind. But only thing is, with love you should
be able to change them. And also dignity,
sense of dignity should be there. Because
if you develop their sense of dignity, they
will not misbehave. That’s very important
from childhood to give them a sense of dignity,
that they are Sahaja Yogis and they have to
behave. Because when we started this school
one year, first year, one month, it was such
a problem I mean, impossible situation. The
teachers gave up and they wrote to me: ‘Better
send typhoon take children.’ It’s terrible.
Not only that, they trouble them but they
used to beat them and bite them and do all
kinds of thing and make fun of them. So wild.
And that place is full of cliffs and full
of, all kinds of dangerous heights and they
would just run out. Just like dogs. Dogs are
better I would say. They had no caution about
themselves and for one month, they all gave
up. And the Principal has now run away he
said: ‘I can’t manage these children.
They don’t want to study. They have come
here to trouble us, that’s all. They don’t
want to study.’ And first thing when I met
them they came and told Me: ‘Mother, we
don’t want to study.’
Now we have put a one, masseur on them, who
massages their body. He was telling Me: ‘They
are really funny children.’ They don’t
want to brush their teeth. If you ask them
to brush their teeth they start crying. They
don’t want to have a bath. Tell them you
have to have your bath, they start crying.
Anything you tell them they start doing like
that.’ So we can say one thing, that disciplining
children in a indirect way is very important
like that you see. Because this idea, that
you should leave the children as they are,
is very wrong. You have to guide them and
tell them how to behave.
Now see, you must have seen Indian children
how quiet they are. But I think the attention
of children is quite a lot. And the mothers
are not working also, so they look after the
children. Now in our schools that we have
here you should, train them up that way. You
can talk to them that: ‘You are Sahaja Yogis,
you see, you are special people.’ The other
day there was one Indian child, he’s living
in Singapore, where he has picked up all these
bad habits. He came and he was talking to
Me: ‘Grandma, Grandma.’ And he said: ‘I
will tell you in Your ear something’. And
he said something funny. I said: ‘Are you
a servant?’ He said: ‘No.’ ‘Then only
servants talk like this. How are you talking
like this?’ ‘Is it?’ I said: ‘Yes.
This is how the servants talk.’ He got such
a fright. He said: ‘All right, I will never
talk like that. It’s dirty. I’ll not talk
like that.’ You see, suddenly he changed.
So we have to talk to them, we have to have
rapport with them. After all they are born
Realized so they have special powers and they
are special children. But, one thing is definite,
that children cannot be avoided, and you cannot
avoid your duty towards your children. You
have to look after them because, they are
in your trust as it is. They are after all
born Realized children. They are special children
with tremendous brains. They are cleverer
than you and they can outwit you, because
they are so clever, so intelligent. But if
they get spoiled at this age, then later on
it will be very difficult to bring them…You
were better, because you were not born with
Realization. So you understood the value of
Realization. But they don’t. So they are
to be told that: ‘You are Realized children,
God sent you here, you are special children,’
and what should happen. Gradually they will
pick up, and understand.
Of course I am happy that so many marriages
are successful, and people are behaving all
right. Of course there are some stray cases
of fighting going on which I hear about. This
is stupid of course again, that we should
fight. When we are both Sahaja Yogis, what
is there to fight? I mean, there’s no question.
We believe in all the religions, so we can’t
fight on religions. On what subject can we
fight, I just don’t know. We know the ethics
of Sahaja Yoga and we like it, so we cannot
fight on ethics. Economics of Sahaja Yoga
we understand, we cannot fight on that. I
just don’t understand what is the, point
of difference where they start fighting. On
the contrary in Sahaja Yoga, you can really
be, enjoying your married life. Should be
enjoying your married life and the children
should see to it, that our parents are so
nicely, quietly settled down. But if they
see you quarreling, next day they’ll be
quarreling too.
Then we have only monogamy. We don’t have
three wives or four wives as the Muslims have.
We don’t have four husbands or something
like that. We have simple monogamy, a very
peaceful life, very beautiful life, then why
should there be problem between husband and
wife? Culturally we are just the same, we
believe in all the good cultures of all the
world. There’s no problem. One gentleman
told Me that: ‘My wife quarrels with me
on one point.’ I said: ‘Which?’ She
said: ‘You do not meditate, you must meditate
more.’ I said: ‘That’s a good point’.
He thinks as well. But I told the wife that:
‘You need not tell him, he’ll do it on
his own.’ Because you see cannot force things.
This has to work out by themselves. You must
accept them as they are. Gradually they’ll
all improve and gradually they will get there.
You cannot just force them. We cannot just
tell each other, do this way or that way.
Sahaja Yoga is a thing is to be imbibed. People
don’t understand that. They think by forcing
people, by jumping at them, that’s not the
way. Of course if somebody is very difficult,
then we have divorce in Sahaja Yoga. We have
not banned divorce as in the Catholic religion
or anything. There is divorce. But there should
be something sensible about it. One has to
work it out. Normally there should not be
many cases of Sahaja Yoga, of divorce. But
we have because of the background certain
types of funny relations they have had or
I don’t know, what to say. On the whole,
ninety percent or I should say ninety-five
percent marriages are quite successful, and
will be more now the number will be much more,
I’m sure. This time we had seventy-six marriages,
so you can imagine. And in this one month,
Yogi was after My life with his file there.
So there, also there’s some misunderstanding
that Yogi decides, he does not, poor man.
He cannot. But it happens sometimes, like
at the last minute they’ll bring somebody,
now we cannot locate the name of that person,
we just can’t find out if he’s there or
not, or she’s there or not. Suddenly they
bring somebody, and he may say or she may
say that I am there on the form and all that.
Then you have to accept it. If you accept
such a thing then what happens that, you find
that person is not a Sahaja Yogi or was not
a Sahaja Yogi for such a long time. Something
like that. So because of three hundred to
four hundred requests you see, what can we
do. I mean after all, can’t know who is
who.
This is one thing that is very good. At least
we can control all that. If something is wrong
we can find out, we can work it out and we
can manage things. It’s not so difficult.
But the leaders must be careful because the
leaders who recommend should not, do something
out of just some sort of a pity, or some sort
of a consideration. The main consideration
should be, how are the vibrations and what
is the commitment in Sahaja Yoga. If they
are committed to Sahaja Yoga and if their
vibrations are all right, then it’s all
right it’s perfect. But sometimes, you know,
some people do have problems which do not
come up and later on it is discovered.
Still, I am so happy our society is so great.
There’s no such society existing in the
whole world. And this is the society I think
all these Prophets and everybody dreamt of,
of such love, understanding. Gradually I think
we all will, grow and grow and grow. The growth
is going on, but the atmosphere I must say
is very nice, and it helps each other.
In Australia we had more problems in Melbourne,
not in Sydney I must give credit to your leader
here, he has managed the things well. There
are many after him also it’s rather funny
but, I just don’t know, because Australia
always had a problem, this kind and gradually
we have sorted it out. It’s a, leadership
means nothing but I call it hocus-pocus. It
has no meaning at all. But then somebody has
to be there to contact and all that. It’s
something so limited. But there is jealousy,
there is all these things still, lingering
behind and then the problems come in.
Gradually I am sure all of us will grow well
and everything will work out, in a proper
way. Should work out in a proper way. Our
society has to show to the world that there
can be a society like this.
Now there’s a good news which is very good
I think, we can start the calendar from that
date perhaps because such a transformation
is coming, that the Russian Embassy has invited
Me to honor Me for the work I
have done in Russia. And the another good
news is that Gorbachov wants to meet Me. And
you must be aware that in Tagliatti, is one
place, Tagliatti which is an industrial town
where a gentleman called [SOUNDS LIKE: Pagliati]
from Italy went down, he was a revolutionary.
And he started this place called as Pagliati
and the best motorcar that they make is made
in this place Tagliatti, beautiful one. They
gave Me a model here, very beautiful, quite
big. Looked like a limousine sort. Quite big.
And in that one city we have twenty-two thousand
Sahaja Yogis practising, twenty-two thousand.
And you’ll be amazed that in Russia nowhere
is less than sixteen thousand people, nowhere.
Any time you go there at least sixteen thousand
people practising Sahaja Yoga, very seriously.
So can imagine in that country what is going
to happen, though it hasn’t got food as
you have here, too much to eat, but still
look at the way, look at the way it has worked
out. How deeply they have gone into it. They
had never heard a word about Ganesha. They
never believed in God. They were in a way
atheist. And how much they have achieved in
just…look at that. How did they achieve
that? The depth that they have, they just
touched it. And also they invited some scientist,
or two hundred scientists were there. And
when I started telling about science, said:
‘Mother, don’t tell us about science,
had enough of it. Now please tell us about
Spiritual science, spirituality. That’s
it’. Wonderful I tell you, such experiences.
And in My lecture only, just giving a lecture
at the time when there were about sixteen
thousand to eighteen thousand people, people
got cured, just got cured.
Such wonders. There was one lady who came
to see Me after the lecture and she was just
sitting in front of Me. They brought her on
a wheelchair. She said: ‘I couldn’t even
sit.’ All right. And then I said: ‘You
are all right,’ She said: ‘Really?’
I said: ‘Yes. You get up.’ Got up. She
started walking and then she started running
and everybody started… Such faith. Such
faith.
And in Czechoslovakia, there was one old lady.
They brought her with great difficulty just,
held her out and brought her on the stage
and she was trying to sit down. Then she said:
‘Mother I have complete faith in You. I
know You can cure me.’ I said; ‘Really?’
‘Yes. I am sure You can.’ I said: ‘You
are cured.’ She got up. Everybody was surprised.
I said: ‘Now walk. Walk now.’ And then
she started walking fast, and everybody started
laughing. But that faith, you see, is something
so special. I mean I have seen so many miracles
happening with this faith that…
There was one fellow called Mr Shukla, who
is a big boss in this hotel management of
Taj Mahal. And this Mr Shukla heard that his
mother was very sick she was going to die.
Very serious. So he went to Rotak which is
very far away, beyond Delhi from Bombay, and
he saw his mother in a very bad condition,
very painful. The doctor said she has a galloping
cancer and at the most she can live for three
days. He got very much worried. He came back
home. He thought that: ‘I couldn’t even
talk to my mother, she’s in a coma, what
will happen to her.’ He just sat before
My Photograph and prayed: ‘Mother, please
cure my mother. I don’t want anything just
now, You just cure my mother, I know You can
cure her.’ And within three days before,
instead of dying she was out of the hospital.
He brought her to Bombay. They took her to
the hospital of Thata, Thata Memorial Hospital
we have, and when they examined her they said
she has no cancer. He has papers. He has papers
from the first hospital and from this one.
Recently, Rajesh told me a story about himself.
He said: ‘Mother, You don’t know how many
powers You have given me.’ I said: ‘No
it’s your faith.’ His uncle was just dying.
They had removed his oxygen and everything.
His aunt sent for him and she said: ‘Now
he’s about to die. You pray for his salvation,
at least to Mother. Just somehow or other
try to see that he’s also gets his salvation’.
He’s not a Sahaja Yogi uncle nothing of
the kind. So Rajesh just had his pendant,
just twisted it, and then closed his eyes
and prayed: ‘Mother, please cure my uncle.’
That’s all. He said it was too much of a
venture to say but I did say. And the uncle
who was dying got all right, went to America
and he’s back and still kicking.
So this is something you see. We have to go
deep down into ourselves. Superficiality is
not going to help. If we are superficial by
nature, it will not help us. We have to understand
ourselves. The whole mechanism is within us
to attract the attention of this all-pervading
Power, to use it, to work it out. We can do
marvels. If we really go deep down, and become
good vehicles of that all-pervading Power.
That’s what we have to do. Everything can
work out. There are so many examples of this,
but specially these two recently I heard about
and, I was amazed. We have to have that depth
within us to understand: What are we doing?
Where are we? We are born at this time. It’s
an important time, and that at this time,
we have got Self-realization.
Very few people got it. Not only that, we
have been blessed with so many things. But
above all we are so powerful. And all these
powers must be manifested, must be used, must
be worked out. And this superficiality of
living on a very mundane style is not going
to help us. We have to really go deep down
into ourselves. I mean you are seekers, no
doubt, you are seekers of truth. And you have
found it also. How many have found it? So
many are already lost if you see as hippies,
as this, as that, as TM, as another this Rajneesh.
I’ve seen some other lady here, two months
she came. How much she was caught up. She
was just worried. So many are lost like that.
But you are the people who have got the knowledge,
you are God’s people, you have got the truth
with you, and all these powers are within
you, but you must use them.
But I’ve seen even after coming to Sahaja
Yoga some people get lost in the temptation
because they get money. Some people get some
talents, they get lost in the talents. Some
people get some powers, they’ll get lost
with them. That’s not the way. You see if
God has given you this Realization, He expects
you, to give Realizations to others, to go
deep down into your Self. This is what we
have to do is to really work out, our depth.
It all exists within us. You never knew there
is Spirit within us. Is there. You never knew
there is Ganesha within us. Is there. And
when you started awakening them, you found
it works, it works. It has worked such wonders,
health wise, wealth wise, in every way. But
spiritually, how far we are? How do you judge
a person who is spiritually evolved, is that,
even a desire works out. Any, desire works
out. And such a person doesn’t have any
funny desires. Absolutely it works out. And
that’s what I want Australians to do because
you are special people born in this country
of Ganesha. Perhaps we forget sometimes that
you are born in the land of Shri Ganesha.
Very special people [INAUDIBLE: you are?].
Very special. So have respect for yourself.
And also must, manifest your glory. That otherwise,
of all the places from Russia, Sahaja Yoga
will spread, it’s not, I mean, never expected
that. But it may, it may I tell you they are
so deep, so very deep people. Extremely deep.
I don’t know what has given this. Materialism
I think is responsible for our superficiality.
They are not materialistic. About thirty percent
people are materialistic, the rest are not.
They are all seeking the spirit in the real
sense of the word. Not just for fashion. Very
remarkable. Very loving. Very beautiful. I
was there, they came. They arranged that,
from one place, some people will come only
for two days then two days. And where I had
purchased a little cottage, they, there are
some places where they can live in a small
little huts like that. They all came and stayed
there. I didn’t know where they were living
or anything. Early in the morning they would
come, bring some flowers, and plant the flowers
in the garden, flowers, itself. And would
not say anything and go away. Sit down for
meditation.
One day suddenly I discovered all of them
sitting there meditating. So surprised. And
then it was this Gorbachov problems came up.
So I said: ‘Now what are you going to do?’
‘What are we doing? We are in the kingdom
of God. Why should we worry about Gorbachov
or anyone, why should we?’ We are not worried.
Beautiful people. Beautiful.
Very collective. Also this is the blessing
of, communism they are very collective. I
have seen that also in Calcutta. People are
extremely collective. They don’t talk ill
of others. Very collective people. It’s
not like: ‘Come to my house. Oh You must
visit. This thing, this is my daughter...’
That ‘my-ness’ I didn’t see, in Russia
and in Calcutta. I was surprised. Calcutta
also has communistic, communist government.
How it has worked out, I can’t say. So are
you spreading Sahaja Yoga? How many people
give Realization?
Yogi: [INAUDIBLE] We all do it together collectively.
Shri Mataji: Now you are doing. You all have
to do it. It’s very important. All of you
should ask this question: ‘What have I done
for God?’ Look at these flowers that you
brought. They are so fragrant. They are so
beautiful. They are going to live for a very
short time. But what pleasure. What expression
of your love they give. How beautiful they
are. Australians have a very big role to play.
As I expect from Ganesha, I expect from you
also.
Yogi: …from Hong Kong, from Alex and Kate.
And they managed to get some editorial in
the newspaper, for their programs as a run-up
to your visit. And in the first program they
got sixty Chinese people, very good quality
people.
Shri Mataji: Oh Look at Alex. Alex is really
special I must say. Such a beautiful boy.
When his mother died, and he was staying with
Me, so I said: ‘Alex won’t to go to your
mother?’ So he said: ‘Mother, there’s
no seat available. Will take about four, five
days to get a seat by the time it goes on.
So what is the need. I am with You.’ Said:
‘You did try?’ Said: ‘I did little bit,
not much, because I saw You, and I knew that
my mother will have Eternal life, so why should
I worry.’ Now he’s saying that Alex has
got sixty Chinese people in Hong Kong. I couldn’t
get even one.
Chinese are another one. If Sahaja Yoga gets
into their heads, they’re very traditional,
very, very deep, very deep people, Chinese.
The Prime Minister of China, I met him when
I went there, in a photograph he’s just
next to Me standing. After that he became
Prime Minister, not that time. A very nice
man. And he was asking Me about spiritual
life, all the time. I showed complete ignorance,
you see. I said these communists God knows
what they are up to. I didn’t tell him.
But I think we can approach him now. Somehow
or another they got very fond of Me, all the
Chinese government and all. Somehow. Some
sort of an auspiciousness they felt about
Me. I couldn’t understand them, what made
them, respect Me so much. They had one exhibition,
one which they had invited Me and My husband,
and I couldn’t go at this point. And, the
next day was closed, that exhibition must
be closed but they kept it open for Me alone.
And they said: ‘You must see the exhibition,
it’s important.’ I don’t know, they
have their own ways of understanding.
We had Confucius there. They follow more Confucius
now, our Confucius who has talked about general
well-being and all that. But not so much about
Tao, that they don’t talk. But they are
extremely humble Chinese. Very humble. You
try to praise them and they say: ‘No, no.
We have to do much better than this, nothing.’
They can never get pampered you see, you couldn’t
praise them, never. They are very much like
Russians, in so many ways. I can see Sahaja
Yogis here. Any questions? Tania is very happy
with her husband. Very happy.
Yogi: Yes Shri Mataji she’s happy.
Shri Mataji: She’s very happy.
Yogi: Mother did you know she has hepatitis?
Shri Mataji: She has what? She too? I’ve
told him what is the thing. Can you fax to
Dr Spiro? [HINDI EXCHANGE] Faxes. She is on
the liver… or her husband, was just like
a child. But see him when he sings, absolutely.
Remarkable. There’s that one with a super-
intelligence I see. Wonderful. She’s happy
because she can come to pujas, we are now
there. She is very happy about that. She’s
happy in Spain also. Italians are better but
not Spanish people. Spanish are little [INAUDIBLE]
I think this American conquering has reflected
in their character.
There are also some misunderstanding of people
think that I have said that the men should
dominate women. Never. I am Myself a woman
and then, if men start dominating Me what
will happen? But the man is the, head of the
family. So the woman, should get her authority
from him but she has her own authority, as
a mother, and the husband must respect her.
Otherwise he’ll never be respected. So it’s
kind of mutual understanding between the two
as I have said that, they are the two wheels
of a chariot, one on the left one on the right.
If you change the wheels, then what will happen?
They are absolutely, equal no doubt. Absolutely
equal. Only they are not similar, which we
must understand that we are not similar. Is
nice to be a woman, I tell you, it’s much
better. Because men have to face so many people,
face so many bosses. You have only one boss,
and if you know how to manage him…
But should be done sweetly, with understanding.
It works out with your, wisdom. Must have
the wisdom, how to manage it. But that’s
a part of the game, and one has to play it
well. Not to feel any way dominated by anything,
but it’s a, kind of a framework one has
to work with. Now supposing this is on our
head. This is not dominating us, but it has
to be there. So a kind of a framework is there,
and that framework is to be accepted. Both
of them should accept and the husband should
never make her feel that he is dominating
her.
Actually, in India the custom is that husbands
are also very clever, not only the women.
So normally they’ll give all the money to
the wife to be managed, and later on take
away all of that. And always they’ll say:
‘All right’. They’ll say: ‘All right’,
the son to her, like guru and all that. Means:
‘You are my lord and this and that and…’
That’s how they keep it up. Because one
thing they must understand is that if wife
is all right the family is all right. If wife
is all right your life is all right. So you
must look after your wife. Very important.
If you understand that point the men will
never try to dominate. Is a wrong idea is
I don’t know from where it has trickled
down that I have said, the men should dominate
a woman. But false prestige should not be
there.
Like in America we went first. You know American
women, how they are. They’ll divorce ten
times, and have all the money of the men.
The men are just like beggars and they are
so rich. It’s a profession with them. The
women have this profession of divorcing men.
So they had cooked and all that. So I said:
‘All right let the boys eat first and then
you can eat later on.’ They said: ‘Mother
this is domination.’ I said: ‘Why? Eating
first is domination or later on domination.’
I think eating there, later on is domination,
because you are at peace you see. Eat as much
as you like. But if somebody is eating first,
then he’s in a hurry to finish for the next
lot that has to come up. But if you are the
second one then you are relaxed you are eating
the way you like. There’s nothing to feed.
And moreover, it’s an attitude I think that:
‘I love to cook, I love to serve I enjoy
it. I enjoy.’ It’s a, temperament of a
woman. She wants to feed people, she likes
it. I tell you, My grandchildren, daughters,
both of them, they were quite small, I asked
them what do you want to be in life. So they
said: ‘We want to be a nurse or an airhostess.’
So I said: ‘Why these two?’ ‘In these
only two professions you can give food to
people. That’s why.’ And they play, you
know, they play like that. They’ll make
a tray in that they will [INAUDIBLE].
So this is actually innate feeling of a child.
Like once My daughter told girls, that if
somebody comes from outside you must make
him sit on the sofa there. You must see that
the fan is open. Give them something to eat,
take out from the fridge and all that. So
one washerman, the dhobi came in. They called
for [INAUDIBLE] to sit on the sofa. Said:
‘I can’t sit.’ ‘You have to sit.’
‘I’m in a hurry.’ ‘Nothing you have
to sit.’ They made him sit, opened the fan,
got everything from the fridge, put it before
him. ‘You have to eat, otherwise we’ll
feed,’ you see. And when My daughter entered
the house she saw these girls feeding him
with their own hands. Got such a fright. He
said: ‘I’m sorry these girls I don’t
know what are they are.’ They said: ‘You
told us and we’re very happy we are doing
that.’ So innately children have this feeling
in their hearts, as girls. And then when we
get a chance we want to do it. I mean, it’s
such a pleasure, to feed someone.
You must have seen with Indian women, it’s
very common they love to feed others, they’re
very happy. And, I mean there’s no domination
I mean if you have to feed someone, that doesn’t
mean that somebody’s dominating you these
are all nonsensical norms. On the contrary
it’s a privilege. Otherwise after sometime
we’ll find, that men will be sitting at
home and the women will be going out. That
will be, that’s already a situation I mean.
[It’s hot for children I think we are in
a cabin, like the ship I think, without the
sea. And there’s no air-conditioning properly.
Outside is better.] So, any questions? [INAUDIBLE
something about entrepreneurs and a book]
Entrepreneurs? I see. It’s quite a small
book I have to say.
Yogini: …the entrepreneurs, plastic surgeons,
the cosmetic industry, fashion industry…
Shri Mataji: So what are they saying?
Yogini: I think the bottom line is that women
have got very poor, self image through those
[INAUDIBLE] It’s a multimillion dollar business
[INAUDIBLE] people are forcing women into
and women are trapped…
Shri Mataji: So that, and then they’re saying,
so women can’t do this and...
Yogini:… talk about how women are frightened
to grow old, that there is no culture…
Shri Mataji: You see in, I can have the book?
In Germany, when I went, there was a lady
and she was telling Me that in Germany, if
you get old then the men go after younger
girls, because you are left alone. Then you
have to marry some older man, who is left
by his wife or something. It’s a big danger.
I said: ‘Why don’t you produce children.
I mean they get, if you have four children
they get more money than the Prime Minister.’
They said: ‘But then you cannot have a husband.’
Either you have children or you have a husband.
It’s like that.
It is because, I tell you, it’s very superficial,
very materialistic superficial ideas, about
women also. They’re a commodity. In Sahaja
Yoga woman, is a person, as equal as a man,
you see. It’s very different. They are just
a commodity to be used, whenever they want
to. And I must say also some women know the
weaknesses of men and try to work it out in
such a manner. Sometimes the women only, trouble
women, also. They don’t understand that
she’s a woman and I’m a woman I should
not try to trouble. But in sort of competitiveness,
they do wrong things and try to destroy another’s
life.
But men will have to change now, it’s coming
to that. All these tricks they have tried
and they are now having, lot of problem. There
are diseases that are coming up. Already there’s
lots of already these secret diseases there.
Apart from these secret diseases there are
diseases which are stopping them, new diseases.
So now they’ll have to come to monogamy.
Once they come to monogamy, then they’ll
have to realize the value of women, what they
are.
And in this all, quarrel about ordination.
Imagine Christianity is so stupid that they
can’t have women for ordination. Now I am
a Woman after all. And now as a reaction,
women are so angry, that a girl came to Me
the other day I was in Perth she said: ‘Mother,
why did you call God as ‘He’, why don’t
you call as ‘She’?’ I said: ‘Because
I am ‘She’ that’s why I have to call
Him ‘He.’ But this concept is only, is
still there. In the Indian scriptures nowhere,
that there’s God, and His Power is Adi Shakti.
But nowhere, even Islam, in Christianity,
in Judaism, in what you call, Buddhism, Jainism,
nowhere. They have not talked of the woman
at all. As if the whole world is made of men.
And this is surprisingly for developed countries
in Sweden countries like this, they are talking
this nonsense. But the solution is only Sahaja
Yoga. There’s no other solution. Even women
go and fight with men what’s the use? Men
fight with women no use. So the best thing
for them is to get to Sahaja Yoga to understand
the value of women. They understand what they
are for, and what is our relationship means
you see. It’s such an enjoyment. Stupid
those people who do not want to have that
enjoyment.
Also your media is responsible whenever you
open the television you just find husband
wife fighting …It’s too much. All the
time fighting, fighting, they show…they
never show good relationship. Once I asked
Derek Lee: ‘Is there any novel where they
show the romance of husband and wife?’ He
said: ‘There’s no book’. No book in
English. The whole of English language there’s
no romance of husband and wife, can you imagine.
I mean that is how you get into tragedies.
But in India if you see, the literature has
certain ethics. One of them is only the romance
between husband and wife is a romance. The
rest of it is, vulgarity. This is the concept
it shows. Also because mostly they are arranged
marriages, so they don’t know all this romanticism
before marriage. So they are waiting for their
wife and whole thing, and the wife becomes
everything to the husband, and same, vice
versa. So the whole cultural concept has changed.
It used to be the same way before, in every
country, but now we are advanced you see.
In that advancement we have done this kind
of a thing, is to make antagonistic societies
of men and women. It’s very sad. But we
are very superficial.
But the concept itself is wrong. I think the
basic fundamental thing, in the western culture
is, to see and to be seen. This is what I’ve
realized. That’s the culture. That people
should see you, and you should be able to
see others. I mean, it is so superficial.
Now they see somebody’s legs and somebody’s
knees, I mean, what’s the use of a joyless
pursuit. That person doesn’t belong to you
nothing of the kind. What’s the use of seeing
these things? But this, we have become very
superficial. And it’s going on and on. But
I think this will all stop in Sahaja Yoga,
gradually we’ll start seeing the beauty
inside.
You know Chris Marlow you know from London.
He had a wife Jane. She was quite a dry person.
She herself was saying that: ‘Mother I am
no good for him.’ So they divorced. Then
he told Me: ‘Mother I want to marry a girl
who has lots of vibrations.’ I said: ‘What
about looks?’ ‘No I don’t see any looks.
I want to see a girl with vibrations.’ And
we had a girl from Amalhabad. Very dark, extremely
dark, and village-like, absolutely. You will
never, I mean, I don’t think from your standards
she may not be beautiful from My standards
she was very good. Full of vibrations. Full
of vibrations. As soon as she came on the
stage he jumped, said: ‘This is the one.’
He’s so tall, she’s short and [INAUDIBLE].
And he looks after her so well I tell you.
And then he went to her place, her village,
all the way to Amalhabad. My sister saw, she
said: ‘What a couple.’ I said: ‘The
couple has chosen each other, I can’t help
it.’ He’s so fond of her, he looks after
her. She’s very sweet, I mean I really love
with that. But I didn’t know that this fellow
will have the same sort of a feeling. Because
we are superficial these things are accepred.
You should see the inner being. How beautiful
it is.
Look at that Elizabeth Taylor, that stupid
country of America. This was her eighth divorce,
I mean eighth honeymoon. So they had three
thousand or four thousand people just standing
outside her house to see, she is going for
her honeymoon. Can you imagine stupid. And
there were ten helicopters hovering round.
And they were parachuting, and some of them
fell on the trees and some fell on the people
who were there. And they were quite excited,
very sensational. You know such stupid people
these Americans are. I don’t know what to
say. And this lady had divorced eight. And
this husband of hers, this one, he’s I think,
I don’t know how many years younger to her,
like her son. And also he’s an ordinary
man or something. But just for the heck of
it. She has no sense of marriage, nothing.
But what she has done is she’s operated
her eyelids and she’s put her up and all
that, and she looks younger now and she says:
‘I can…’ There’s no, in that country
you cannot mature. So stupid. I mean, I was
yet to come across people in a group so stupid
as that. Stupidest people you see. Stupidest.
You can never mature this way.
Still Sahaja Yoga is now working. Gregoire
feels so exhausted. Every time he footsoaks
he just lies flat, saying: ‘Mother, please
save me from New York.’ It’s terrible.
There’s no way of maturity. [INAUDIBLE]
They invited me for this Jungian Society.
And I went there. Of course I didn’t read
Jung much but that day I got hold of a book
and I found out the reason why Indians have
failed. So I talked to them they were very
much impressed and all that. Then the president
of that society is eighty years of age, and
he said that: ‘Mother I must see You I have
some private thing to talk.’ I said: ‘All
right.’ This old man came about eighty years
of age. He said: ‘I have a very serious
problem.’ I said: ‘What’s the serious
problem.’ He says: ‘You see I had a keep.
Because I am a Catholic I could not marry
the keep but I never told my wife. [INAUDIBLE]
I never told my wife.’ ‘So now what am
I supposed to do ?’ He said: ‘Now that
my wife is dead and I want that keep to stay
with me but she has refused. Can you do something
to see that the keep stays with me.’ I said:
‘It’s all right.’ Eighty year-old man.
I was turning sixty by that time. An eighty
year-old man talking like this to Me. I said:
‘Now what is happening to this man?’ And
he is the chairman of the Jungian Society,
International. See the maturity of that person.
Eighty year-old.
In America, such cases so much. Terrible.
Extremely stupid and I don’t know, they
have no confidence in themselves. All the
time they think we should not get old. So
there was, on the television they showed the
cinema actors and actresses coming for a dance
of ‘shake’ and they were all about ninety
years of age. Then when they got down from
the car only they were shaking. I said: ‘What’s
the use, of going to shake?’ In ninety years
they have not grown. Funny dresses they were
wearing and all that. So when are they going
to grow. There’s no maturity. The atmosphere
is the other way round I think. Very stupid.
Really mad. But people start copying them.
Whatever they say people listen to them even
English I’m surprised. I said that: ‘You
are sensible people. Why do you follow these
stupid Americans, or the French?’ English
people are rather mature. Maybe they lived
in India so they have matured quickly I don’t
know why. But compared with these stupid people
they are much more mature. And now they are
following the American style. They used to
follow first the French style, now the American
style. They don’t stand on their own legs.
But Italians have a good sense of ridicule.
They understand what is ridiculous, that’s
something about them. A great sense of ridiculous.
It will all change in Sahaja Yoga it will.
You are in the Kingdom of God. You shouldn’t
worry about these things. But what to do,
if they join us they can come up. But they
don’t want to, let them be like as they
are. What else?
Yogini:…lymphatic system…
Shri Mataji: Lymphatic system? If the lymphatic
system is under attack you may be left-sided.
You see it is, on the whole, there are only
two types of problems actually. Third type
doesn’t exist, or doesn’t bother us. One
is the left another is the right, you see.
Now the lymphatic system is actually, the
combination of both. It’s a psychosomatic
disease. For that you have to do just three-candle
treatment. You see it is reduced to such a
simple thing either you do three-candle treatment,
or you do water treatment. The third type
is the one where you have been to wrong gurus,
in the center. If I run some wrong type of
meditation [INAUDIBLE]. For that also it’s
three-candle treatment, mostly. Or maybe if
the [INAUDIBLE] comes there’s a little change
also sometimes. But whatever it is, this is
very simple for physical. Anybody has lymphatic
system problem has to do left side first.
So this is psychosomatic.
First you must get rid of the psycho side,
so do the left side. When it is cleared out,
then right side is not difficult. If you are
too right-sided, then what happens, it’s
like a pendulum, you move from right to left.
Then psychosomatic troubles start. The best
is first to remove the left, then is look
after the right. Sahaja Yoga is a very simple
way of clearing. It works. Somebody should
help you in left side is to give you bandhan
on your chakras with a candle. Put a candle
on one side of the left swadisthana and also
one before the Photograph. Because it’s
all due to viruses. And the viruses are there
because your attention in the left. Once your
attention goes away from there you are rid
of that. All right? It’s not complicated.
Sahaja Yoga is very simple.
You know we have cured people who were about
to go on the dialysis. Kidney has been cured.
Can you imagine? Of course [INAUDIBLE] blood
cancer that has been cured no doubt. But imagine
the kidney, people were going on the dialysis.
[INAUDIBLE QUESTION] Of course. I mean, we
make the human beings. [INAUDIBLE] You first,
if you are evolving, you are also evolving
human beings with you. So it’s for the emancipation
of the whole world. It’s not only your evolution.
No no not at all. That was over. Now I have
told about that in [INAUDIBLE], is that, from
Buddha’s future they say there will be a
future Buddha who will be Maitreya. Maitreya
means Three Mothers together, will be the
future Buddha. And that is called as Bodhisattva.
Now the Bodhisattva is the One, who will become
Buddha, means who will get Enlightened right,
and will work for the other people. So is
already described, and you don’t have to
suffer, you don’t have to do anything as
it was before individually, but now you’ll
work with the collective. So, you have to
work with the collective otherwise you have
no meaning. Also you cannot be cleansed unless
and until you come to collective. If you say:
‘I’m staying at home and I’m doing all
the puja and all that,’ doesn’t work out.
Like a nail if it is cut, it doesn’t grow.
Very simple. It’s not for one person no
doubt. I mean how can it be, for one. Because
the time has come for doing collective work
now. The whole world has to change.
Yogi: Shri Mother, will we ever be able to
go to Tasmania?
Shri Mataji: [HINDI] That’s [INAUDIBLE].
Yes they have to come. They have to come here.
Like you see, Sicily, we are now having lots
of Sahaja Yogis there. They all came down.
Then I can now go to Sicily. We have very
great people in Tasmania. Now that’s the
point. So when they will come and they’ll
get their Realization then I can go. You see,
if I go to a place it is like the, should
I say, the seeds being sprouted nobody to
look after.
Yogi: There were quite a number of people
who came from Tasmania. I think some of them
wonder if they could ever go back.
Shri Mataji: They should. They should. They
should go with their bandhans and try to save
their country. They should. If they go and
establish it I’ll definitely go. It’s
quite a remarkable place that Tasmania is.
Talismad means, all these secret, magic. From
that Tasmania word must have come.
Yogi: How many Tasmanians are there here?
Shri Mataji: Still very few, to fight those
negativities there. Very negative. Very negative,
isn’t it. That’s like, we have Calcutta.
Too much of black magic. Too much. But gradually
we have now, got it out. It’s changed. One
side is they are all full of black magic,
those who believe in God. The another side
are communists. But still now we have thousands.
It is remarkable. But people had to work very
hard for it, very hard. So many people went
from Nagpur, from Bombay, from Delhi to help
them. Still some places I’ve not been, like
Ceylon, Assam. We have some coming from there.
I told them next year I’ll try to be there.
Yogi: Shri Mataji, …Photograph where Hands
are like that. Can you tell us the significance
of that please?
Shri Mataji: Hands like that. You want to
know what’s the symbol? This is for assurance.
See this is for assurance. It has powers.
This Hand has tremendous powers. And this
One is for giving. You see. So these are two
aspects. But actually as you know this is
the, power of action. So it acts. And this
is the power of desire. So this is the Love
that’s flowing of your Mother, and this
is how She [INAUDIBLE] it. But now I have
given up. I used to do it in the beginning
it was needed, but now it’s not necessary.
It works even without that. They are called
as mudras which I used in the beginning. Now
I don’t use that, mostly.